About
=====
Ini is a structure for parsing and manipulating the popular Windows-style
configuration file.  This file format has also popped up in such projects
as PHP and Samba.  The Ini structure is written for Standard ML of New
Jersey (SML/NJ).


Licensing
=========
This code is licensed under a BSD style license in order to promote the
use of the code and SML in general.  See the top of any source file for
the terms of the license.


Usage
=====
There are two structures provided by this library - Ini, for reading and
parsing INI files and IniDict, for manipulating the results of parsing.
Ini exports one function:

   val parse: string -> IniDict.section_dict

Before you can do anything else, you'll need to call Ini.parse with a
filename.  parse throws the IO.Io exception if it is provided a bad
filename or a file it cannot read, and the Ini.InvalidFile exception if
the INI file is not valid.  You are given back a dictionary containing a
mapping from section names to other dictionaries.  These other
dictionaries are mappings from settings to values, where the values are
lists.  See SPEC for further details.

Now that you've got an IniDict.section_dict, you can use the IniDict
structure to extract useful information from it.  You can use the
HashTable functions to manipulate the dictionary, though this is
cumbersome.  The IniDict structure provides specialized versions of the
HashTable.find and HashTable.lookup functions:

   val find: IniDict.section_dict -> string -> string -> string list option
   val lookup: IniDict.section_dict -> string -> string -> string list

find takes a dictionary, section name, and setting key name.  It returns
the value if found and NONE if it does not exist in the dictionary.
lookup takes the same arguments, but throws the NotFound exception if the
key or section does not exist.  Note that the value is always a list,
though it may be singleton if the key only appeared once in a section of
the INI file.

Ini also provides the toString function:

   val toString: IniDict.section_dict -> string

This function converts a dictionary into a string suitable for printing or
writing out to a file.  This string is a valid INI file format, though
Ini.toString (Ini.parse "file") is not an identity function.  For example,
the resulting string will have all the values of the same key grouped
together regardless of the ordering in the input file.


Examples
========
A small number of examples are provided in the examples/ directory.  To
run them, first start SML from the top-level INI directory.  Then:

   Standard ML of New Jersey v110.48 [FLINT v1.5], August 10, 2004
   - CM.make "ini.cm";
      ...
   - use "examples/strings.sml";";
   [opening examples/strings.sml]
   left right
   val it = () : unit
   -


Specification
=============
For a thorough documentation of the INI file specification recognized by
this parser, see the SPEC file.  If you don't trust that and want to know
exactly what's going on, look at ini.lex for the lexer and ini.grm for the
parser.


Bugs
====
Please send any bug reports or comments to chris@bangmoney.org.
